
{{toc}}

h1. Common FNAL Installations

Most FNAL experiments have an installation of GENIE associated with their code releases.  This allows for a consistent build of their own code, any framework they depend on and GENIE.  By using "UPS":http://www.fnal.gov/docs/products/ups/ dependencies between products can be accounted for.

NOvA and the LArSoft-based (liquid argon) experiments use UPS products installed on various CVMFS disks:  To setup GENIE without reference to any particular experiment one can use:

bc.   source /cvmfs/fermilab.opensciencegrid.org/products/genie/bootstrap_genie_ups.sh
   ups setup genie v3_06_02 -q e26:debug

The GENIE product by itself isn't sufficient for generating events out-of-the-box; the primary deterrent is the lack of cross-sections splines.  These are generated using GENIE tools, but are CPU intensive to create and need to be tailored to particular needs of the experiments (e.g. combinations of neutrino flavors and nuclear isotopes).   Generally there should be an accompanying "UPS products to supply cross-sections and tweak the physics options":UPS-products-genie_phyopt-and-genie_xsec.textile

h2.  What versions are available

To see what releases are available use:

bc.   ups list -aK+ genie

which results in a list similar to:

bc. ...
"genie" "v3_04_00i" "Linux64bit+3.10-2.17" "e26:geant4:prof" ""
"genie" "v3_04_00i" "Linux64bit+3.10-2.17" "e26:inclxx:prof" ""
"genie" "v3_04_00i" "Linux64bit+3.10-2.17" "debug:e26:geant4" ""
"genie" "v3_04_00i" "Linux64bit+3.10-2.17" "debug:e26" ""
"genie" "v3_04_00i" "Linux64bit+3.10-2.17" "debug:e26:inclxx" ""
"genie" "v3_04_00i" "Linux64bit+3.10-2.17" "e26:prof" ""
...
"genie" "v3_06_02" "Linux64bit+3.10-2.17" "e26:inclxx:prof" ""
"genie" "v3_06_02" "Linux64bit+3.10-2.17" "e26:prof" ""
"genie" "v3_06_02" "Linux64bit+3.10-2.17" "debug:e26:geant4" ""
"genie" "v3_06_02" "Linux64bit+3.10-2.17" "debug:e26:inclxx" ""
"genie" "v3_06_02" "Linux64bit+3.10-2.17" "e26:geant4:prof" ""
"genie" "v3_06_02" "Linux64bit+3.10-2.17" "debug:e26" ""

h2.  UPS dependencies

bc.    ups depend genie v2_8_0 -q e2:debug

shows the dependency tree:

bc. $ ups_depend genie v3_06_02 -q e26:debug:geant4
genie v3_06_02 -q debug:e26:geant4
|__geant4 v4_11_0_p03e -q debug:e26
|  |__clhep v2_4_7_1 -q debug:e26
|  |  |__gcc v12_1_0
|  |__xerces_c v3_2_3e -q e26
|  |__g4abla v3_1
|  |__g4emlow v8_0
|  |__g4neutron v4_6
|  |__g4particlexs v4_0
|  |__g4nucleonxs v2_0
|  |__g4nuclide v2_3
|  |__g4photon v5_7
|  |__g4pii v1_3
|  |__g4radiative v5_6
|  |__g4surface v2_2
|  |__g4tendl v1_4
|  |__g4incl v1_0
|__root v6_28_12 -q debug:e26:p3915
|  |__fftw v3_3_10
|  |__gsl v2_7
|  |__libxml2 v2_9_12
|  |__nlohmann_json v3_11_2
|  |__protobuf v3_21_12a -q e26
|  |__numpy v1_24_3 -q e26:p3915
|  |  |__python v3_9_15
|  |  |  |__sqlite v3_40_01_00
|  |  |__openblas v0_3_23 -q e26
|  |__postgresql v15_3 -q p3915
|  |__pythia v6_4_28x -q debug:e26
|  |__tbb v2021_9_0 -q e26
|  |__xrootd v5_5_5a -q debug:e26:p3915
|     |__scitokens_cpp v1_0_1a -q e26:sql34001
|__lhapdf v6_5_5 -q debug:e26:p3915
|__pythia8 v8_3_15 -q debug:e26:p3915
|  |__hepmc3 v3_3_1 -q debug:e26:p3915
|__log4cpp v1_1_3e -q debug:e26

h1. Experimental Releases

On occasion there is a need to have a non-official UPS products; sometimes these are used for pre-release tests or to have a build from whence to generate cross-section splines (before the official build is available).  These will be put in @/cvmfs/fermilab.opensciencegrid.org/products/genie/local@ and are available when using @bootstrap_genie_ups.sh@

h1. Doing it on your own

Generally users should employ existing installations in UPS.  Support for individual non-standard installations will be a low priority.  But if you insist, so "Building GENIE on your own with these minimal instructions":Building-GENIE-on-your-own.textile might help.
