
h1. Getting a @AR23_20j@ tune when I only have a @AR23_20i@ one

GENIE (as of @R-3_04_02@) doesn&#39;t come with a @AR23_20j@ tune, but it does come with @AR23_20i@.   What do I do?

h2. A few words about  Comprehensive Model Configurations (CMC) and Tunes

A GENIE CMC is specified by a directory of the form @AAYY_NNa@. where @AA@ is some alphabetic string (@G@ for GENIE defined ones, @AR@ here for Argon experiments agreement),  @YY@ is the year when it was defined, @NN@ is a two-digit numeric value representing the general model choices, and @a@ is an alpha value (generally taken to represent primarily the FSI model choice, but sometimes also incorporating other choices such as z-expansion).   The top level of this directory is the "untuned" CMC and constitutes the "tune" @AAYY_NNa_00_000@.  This directory contains XML files that configure the CMC by specifying model choice.   Typically these are files such as @ModelConfiguration.xml@ and @TuneGeneratorList.xml@, but may include others.

Beneath this directory are sub-directories of the form @AAYY_NNa_xxx_yy@ which constitute proper tunes that will be applied in addition (overriding if applicable) those found in the parent directory.  Typically this is just the @CommonParam.xml@ file.

h2.  Create a new CMC/Tune

In the case under consideration we solely want to change the FSI model relative to @AR23_20i@.   For this we need a new CMC directory.  Generally the @${GENIE}/config@ directory is not writable, so we will have to locate it elsewhere.
We can start by copying the files from the @AR23_20i@ CMC:  It&#39;s best, for reasons we&#39;ll see later, if the @${WORKAREA}@ is a clean directory with no other contents.
<pre>
cd ${WORKAREA}
cp -va $GENIE/config/AR23_20i ./AR23_20j
</pre>

h2. Modify the FSI model to use

We&#39;re only changing the FSI model so the necessary change is quite trivial
<pre>
cd AR23_20j
sed -i -e &#39;s/HAIntranuke2018/HNIntranuke2018/g&#39; ModelConfiguration.xml
cd ..
</pre>

h2. Prepare to use the new CMC/Tune

GENIE normally looks for CMCs in the @GENIE/config@ path, so we must tell it the alternative location:

<pre>
export GXMLPATH=${WORKAREA}:${GXMLPATH}
</pre>

Note, that if GENIE is going to be run on a grid node that this location *must* be accessible such as a CVMFS path or a directory copied to the worker node by other means.

h2.  Special case for spline files with FSI change

In the case where the _only_ change is that of the FSI model, then the cross section spline file does not need re-calculation, but _does_ need to be modified.   Generally it is useful to locate this new file adjacent to the tune. -- this is done for cases in UPS where the tune is non-standard by co-locating the spline file with the CMC/tune configuration files along the lines of:

<pre>
cat /location/of/AR23_20i/my_spline_file.xml | sed -e &#39;s/AR23_20i/AR23_20j/g&#39; > ${WORKDIR}/my_new_spline_file.xml
</pre>

One can reuse the file name if the _new_ location ( @$WORKDIR@ ) is cleanly separated from other files and directories.


h1.  Putting it all together

To facilitate all this I have done the above steps and packaged @AR23_20j_00_000@ as a UPS product that can be setup:

<pre>
# bootstrap UPS and various areas:
source /cvmfs/fermilab.opensciencegrid.org/products/genie/bootstrap_genie_ups.sh
# ensure that the right UPS area is included:  
echo $PRODUCTS | tr : &#39;\n&#39; | grep genie/local
# should include /cvmfs/fermilab.opensciencegrid.org/products/genie/local
# if not add that path to the colon separated $PRODUCTS shell variable

# actually setup the product which includes the CMC/tune and the spline file
setup genie_xsec v3_04_00 -q AR2320j00000:e1000:k250

# what one should see:

echo $GXMLPATH/ | tr : &#39;\n&#39; | grep AR23
# /cvmfs/fermilab.opensciencegrid.org/products/genie/local/genie_xsec/v3_04_00/NULL/AR2320j00000-k250-e1000/data/

echo $GENIEXSECFILE
# /cvmfs/fermilab.opensciencegrid.org/products/genie/local/genie_xsec/v3_04_00/NULL/AR2320j00000-k250-e1000/data/gxspl-NUsmall.xml

echo $GENIE_XSEC_TUNE
# AR23_20j_00_000
</pre>


h2. More AR23_20x FSI choices

Two other choices for Final State Interactions are INCL++ and Geant4&#39;s Bertini Cascade.   These use additional external libraries and thus must use different builds of GENIE.

h3. INCL++

<pre>
sed -i -e &#39;s/HAIntranuke2018/HINCLCascadeIntranuke/g&#39; ModelConfiguration.xml
</pre>
but one needs:
<pre>
setup genie v3_04_00d -q e20:prof:+inclxx # "+" is critical for setting this up
setup genie_xsec v3_04_00 -q AR2320k00000:e1000:k250
</pre>

h3. Geant4 Bertini Cascade

<pre>
sed -i -e &#39;s/HAIntranuke2018/HG4BertCascIntranuke/g&#39; ModelConfiguration.xml
</pre>
but one needs:
<pre>
setup genie v3_04_00d -q e20:prof:+geant4 # "+" is critical for setting this up
setup genie_xsec v3_04_00 -q AR2320l00000:e1000:k250
</pre>





