
{{toc}}

h1. GENIE at FNAL

This is the wiki page for GENIE work being done at FNAL

"Transitioning to AlmaLinux9":Transitioning-to-AlmaLinux9.textile

h1.  Official GENIE site

The full GENIE project is located at:  http://www.genie-mc.org

The source code can be found on GitHub at "https://github.com/GENIE-MC":https://github.com/GENIE-MC

h1. Documentation

h2.  GENIE as a UPS product

The GENIE code is available from @genie.hepforge.org@, but needs to be compiled in a manner consistent with other products it depends on (ROOT, LHAPDF, etc) and with any framework it might be used within (e.g. ART).   Many of the FNAL experiments use UPS to share these installations.

* "UPS installations of GENIE at FNAL":FNAL-installations.textile
* "Auxillary UPS GENIE products":UPS-products-genie_phyopt-and-genie_xsec.textile
* "Using GENIE UPS products under AlmaLinux9":Using-GENIE-UPS-products-under-AlmaLinux9.textile

{{collapse(here be dragons)
* "Building GENIE on your own: minimal build instructions...if you must...":Building-GENIE-on-your-own.textile
}}

h2.  Cross-section splines

In order to use GENIE for event generation one must have generated cross-section splines for any and all desired combinations of neutrino an flavor and nuclear isotope.   Versions of these spline files that are adequate for the FNAL experiments are distributed via UPS.

* "UPS products genie_phyopt and genie_xsec":UPS-products-genie_phyopt-and-genie_xsec.textile
* List of available pre-calculate spline sets:  https://cdcvs.fnal.gov/redmine/projects/nutools/wiki/GENIE_Configuration_Files

{{collapse(here be more dragons)
* "Creating cross-section spline files":Creating-cross-section-spline-files.textile
}}

h2.  Flux handling for GENIE and FNAL experiments

Event generation for realistic experimental setups relies on a non-trivial characterization of the neutrino flux.  The @GNuMIFlux@ code exists to handle many of the data products of the NuMI flux simulations.  The @GSimpleNtpFlux@ format is a simplified ntuple containing the bare minimum of data for neutrino rays; such files can be derived from @GNuMIFlux@ interpretations of the beam simulations evaluated at a given detector location.

* "GNuMIFlux code and config":GNuMIFlux-code-and-config.textile
* "Generating GSimpleNtpFlux files":Generating-GSimpleNtpFlux-files.textile
* "Manipulating GSimpleNtpFlux files":Manipulating-GSimpleNtpFlux-files.textile

Future "flux" file are to be migrated to using the @dk2nu@ ntuple format:  https://cdcvs.fnal.gov/redmine/projects/nusoftart/wiki/Dk2nu

h2.  Running @gevgen_fnal@

In many cases @genie@ event generation will occur as a stage embedded in the @art@ framework.  Information on that can be found as part of the @nutools@ and/or @nugen@ project ( https://cdcvs.fnal.gov/redmine/projects/nutools/wiki and https://cdcvs.fnal.gov/redmine/projects/nugen ).

* "running gevgen_fnal":Running-gevgen_fnal.textile

* "gevgen_fnal with alternative fiducial cylinders":gevgen_fnal-with-alternative-fiducial-cylinders.textile

h2.  Reading GENIE native format files

* "reading ghep.root files":Reading-gheproot-files.textile




h2. "Considerations When Generating Rock Events":Considerations-when-generating-rock-events.textile




---

h1. Common questions

h2. "What's the difference between gsimple and dk2nu (g4numi) fluxes":Whats-the-difference-between-gsimple-and-dk2nu-g4numi-fluxes.textile

h2. "Getting a AR23_20j tune when I only have a AR23_20i one":Getting-a-AR23_20j-tune-when-I-only-have-a-AR23_20i-one.textile

---

h1. GENIE development work at Fermilab

p{font-size:120%;color:red}.  This section is intended for the local developers and *not* end-users.

h2. "CVMFS and UPS installations for development work":CVMFS-and-UPS-installations-for-development-work.textile

h2. "How to build Professor on geniegpvm01":How-to-build-Professor-on-geniegpvm01.textile

h2. "Running GENIE on grid":Running-GENIE-on-grid.textile

h2. "Automated validation":Automated-validation.textile

{{collapse(Click to Show Obsolete Validation Materials, Click to Hide Obsolete Validation Materials)

h2. - "Legacy Validation":Legacy-validation.textile - obsolete

}}

---

{{collapse(View wiki structure...)
  bq. {{child_pages}}
}}
